oranges by Gary soda the first time I
walked with a girl I was 12
cold and weighted down with two oranges
in my jacket
December frost cracking beneath my steps
my breath before me then gone as I
walked toward her house the one whose
porch light burned yellow night and day
in any weather a dog barked at me until
she came out pulling at her gloves face
bright with Rouge I smiled touched her
shoulder and led her down the street
across a used-car lot and a line of
newly planted trees until we were
breathing before a drugstore
we entered the tiny bell ringing a
saleslady down a narrow aisle of goods I
turned to the candies peered like
bleachers and asked what she wanted
light in her eyes a smile starting at
the corners of her
i fingered a nickel in my pocket and
when she looked at a chocolate that cost
a dime I didn't say anything
I took the nickel from my pocket then an
orange and set them quietly on counter
when I looked out the lady's eyes met
mine and held them knowing very well
what it was all about outside a few cars
have seen past fog hanging like old
coats between the trees
I took my girl's hand and mine for two
blocks then released it to let her
unwrap the chocolate I've peeled my
orange
so great against the gray of December
that from some distance but the someone
might have like I was making the fire in
my hands